API credential loaders (#5455)
gravitational/teleport: examples/go-client/README.md

### Introduction

This program demonstrates how to...

> 1. Create a user and role, which the API client will act as.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a user and a role which the API client will act as.
```

> 2. Authenticate against the API server using the four different methods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Authenticate against the API server using any of the four different methods.
```

2. They must offer their x509 certificate, which has been previously issued
   by the auth sever.

There are a few simple ways to generate the certificates needed to authenticate the client, each of which is detailed in this demo.

### Authorization

> The Server will authorize requests based on the user associated with the certs used to authenticate the Client. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Server will authorize requests for the user associated with the certificates used to authenticate the client. 
```

Therefore, to use the API client, you need to create a user and any roles it may need for your use case. The client will act as that user and have access to everything defined by the user's role(s).

> Note: role based access control is an enterprise feature. All users will be treated 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: role based access control is an enterprise feature. All users in the OSS versions of Teleport have the role `admin`.
```

as the `admin` role in non-enterprise instances of Teleport. 

### Run the Demo

First, create the `access-admin` user and role using the commands below.

```bash
$ tctl create -f access-admin.yaml
$ tctl users add access-admin --roles=access-admin
```

Second, Replace the address `proxy.example.com:3025` with the address of your auth server.

Third, choose one of the authentication methods.

1. tsh profile (default):

   ```bash 
   $ tsh login --user=access-admin
   ```

2. identity file:

>    In `main.go` replace `client.ProfileCreds()` (line 33), with `client.IdentityFileCreds("identity_file_path")`.

Reviewer: Link to the line in main.go directly? This has the downside that the reference might become invalid if changes are not synced between Go code and the README.
Show a snippet from the example to make it visually helpful.

Third, create credentials to authenticate the client, and follow the steps below corresponding to the credentials chosen. Multiple credentials can be specified and the first credentials to successfully load will be used.

1. Identity File Credentials:

   ```bash
   # login and generate identity file
   $ tsh login --user=access-admin --out=certs/access-admin-identity
   ```

2. Key Pair Credentials:

   ```bash
   $ mkdir -p certs
   # Generate certificates from auth server without login
   $ tctl auth sign --format=tls --ttl=87600h --user=access-admin --out=certs/access-admin
   ```

3. TLS Credentials (manual):

   Generate valid TLS certificates by whatever means desired. Replace the following comment in `main.go` with custom logic to load the certificates into the `*tls.Config`:

   ```go
	var tlsConfig *tls.Config
	// Create valid tlsConfig here to use TLS Credentials
   ```

   Note that this is not the recommended strategy since the TLS config can be generated automatically with the methods above. However, some users may find this useful if they already have a TLS config defined or they have a custom Teleport setup.

> Lastly, run the demo:

Reviewer 2: This file looks like it's weirdly truncated?

Author: I'll add a line to better conclude the readme.

2. They must offer their x509 certificate, which has been previously issued
   by the auth sever.

The client supports multiple `CredentialProviders`, which can gather credentials for client authentication from their defined source.

Multiple providers can be specified in order to try multiple authentication methods. This is helpful for redundancy, especially in cases where some authentication methods are expected to fail/expire sometimes.

This demo sets up a few `CredentialProviders` which can be easily tried out in the demo below.

### Authorization

> The Server will authorize requests for the user associated with the certificates used to authenticate the client. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The server will authorize requests for the user associated with the certificates used to authenticate the client. 
```

Therefore, to use the API client, you need to create a user and any roles it may need for your use case. The client will act on behalf of that user and have access as defined by the user's role(s).

Note: role based access control is an enterprise feature. All users in the OSS versions of Teleport are limited to a single `admin` role.

### Run the Demo

First, create the `access-admin` user and role using the commands below.

```bash
$ tctl create -f access-admin.yaml
$ tctl users add access-admin --roles=access-admin
```

Second, replace the address `localhost:3025` with the address of your auth server. Note that the client only supports local connections, but support will be added for connecting through the proxy soon.

Third, choose at least one `CredentialProvider` to authenticate the client, and follow the steps below corresponding to the method. Multiple `CredentialsProvider` can ge specified and the first method to successfully load `Credentials` will be used to authenticate the client.

1. Identity File Provider:

   ```bash
   # login and generate identity file

>    $ tsh login --user=access-admin --out=identity_file_path

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   $ tsh login --user=access-admin --out=identity/file/path
```
to make the example look like a real path.

   ```

2. Key Pair Provider:

   ```bash
   $ mkdir -p certs
   # Generate certificates from auth server without login
   $ tctl auth sign --format=tls --ttl=87600h --user=access-admin --out=certs/access-admin
   ```

3. TLS Provider (manual):

   Generate valid TLS certificates by whatever means desired. Replace the following comment in `main.go` with custom logic to load the certificates into the `*tls.Config`:

   ```go
	var tlsConfig *tls.Config
	// Create valid tlsConfig here to use TLS Provider
   ```

>    Note that this is not the recommended strategy since the TLS config can be generated automatically with the methods above. However, some users may find this useful if they already have a TLS config defined or they have an irregular Teleport setup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Note that this is not the recommended strategy since the TLS config can be generated automatically with the methods above. However, some users may find this useful if they already have a TLS config defined or they have an non-standard Teleport setup.
```
or perhaps `custom`

2. They must offer their x509 certificate, which has been previously issued
   by the auth sever.

> There are a few simple ways to generate the certificates needed to authenticate the client, each of which is detailed in this demo.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are a few ways to generate the certificates needed to authenticate the client, each of which is detailed in this demo.
```
otherwise it implies that there are also hard methods which are not detailed. Correct me if that's intended as is though.

### Authorization

The Server will authorize requests for the user associated with the certificates used to authenticate the client. 

> Therefore, to use the API client, you need to create a user and any roles it may need for your use case. The client will act as that user and have access to everything defined by the user's role(s).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Therefore, to use the API client, you need to create a user and any roles it may need for your use case. The client will act on behalf of that user and have access as defined by the user's role(s).
```

> Note: role based access control is an enterprise feature. All users in the OSS versions of Teleport have the role `admin`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: role based access control is an enterprise feature. All users in the OSS versions of Teleport are limited to a single `admin` role.
```

### Run the Demo

First, create the `access-admin` user and role using the commands below.

```bash
$ tctl create -f access-admin.yaml
$ tctl users add access-admin --roles=access-admin
```

> Second, Replace the address `proxy.example.com:3025` with the address of your auth server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Second, replace the address `proxy.example.com:3025` with the address of your auth server.
```

> Third, choose one of the authentication methods, and make the corresponding changes to `main.go`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Third, choose one of the authentication methods and make the corresponding changes to `main.go`.
```

1. login and generate tsh profile (default):

   ```bash 
   $ tsh login --user=access-admin
   ```

2. login and generate identity file:

   ```bash
   $ tsh login --user=access-admin --out=identity_file_path
   ```

   In `main.go` replace `client.ProfileCreds`, with `client.IdentityFileCreds`.

   ```go
   creds, err := client.IdentityFileCreds("identity_file_path")
   ```

3. generate certificates from auth server without login:

   ```bash
   $ mkdir -p certs
   $ tctl auth sign --format=tls --ttl=87600h --user=access-admin --out=certs/access-admin
   ```

   In `main.go` replace `client.ProfileCreds`, with `client.CertsPathCreds`.

   ```go
   creds, err := client.CertsPathCreds("certs/access-admin")
   ```

4. generate and gather TLS config manually.

>    Generate valid TLS certificates by whatever means desired. In `main.go`, provide valid credentials to create a `*tls.Config`, and replace `client.ProfileCreds` with `client.TLSCreds`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Generate valid TLS certificates by whatever means desired. In `main.go`, use the generated certificates to build a new `*tls.Config` value and use it in `client.TLSCreds` to create credentials.
```

   ```go

>    tls := &tls.Config{...}

Reviewer: nit: could this be expanded further to show how to apply certificates or is it overly-verbose?

Author: I don't think this is necessary/helpful, since users who choose the manual option should already know what they're trying to do. I'll add a note and refactor it a bit to make that clearer.

Third, create credentials to authenticate the client, and follow the steps below corresponding to the credentials chosen. Multiple credentials can be specified and the first credentials to successfully load will be used.

1. Identity File Credentials:

   ```bash
   # login and generate identity file
   $ tsh login --user=access-admin --out=certs/access-admin-identity
   ```

2. Key Pair Credentials:

   ```bash
   $ mkdir -p certs
   # Generate certificates from auth server without login
   $ tctl auth sign --format=tls --ttl=87600h --user=access-admin --out=certs/access-admin
   ```

3. TLS Credentials (manual):

   Generate valid TLS certificates by whatever means desired. Replace the following comment in `main.go` with custom logic to load the certificates into the `*tls.Config`:

   ```go
	var tlsConfig *tls.Config
	// Create valid tlsConfig here to use TLS Credentials
   ```

   Note that this is not the recommended strategy since the TLS config can be generated automatically with the methods above. However, some users may find this useful if they already have a TLS config defined or they have a custom Teleport setup.

Lastly, run the demo:

   ```bash
   $ go run .
   ```

> To see more information on the go client and how to use it, visit our [API Documentation](https://goteleport.com/teleport/docs/api-reference/).

Reviewer 3: go client -> Go client
